# Rails Assessments

Try your best to answer each question on your own before looking up the answer online. Once you're done writing your first answer, you can google the question and write the best answer you find.

### 1. What are some advantages of using Ruby on Rails?

 - Rails offers the scaffolding to build a backend using a MVC architecture. It includes many methods and conventions to save time.

### 2. How does Ruby on Rails use the Model View Controller (MVC) framework?

 - Rails apps contain a model, a view, and controller. A rails server therefore has a controller to route requests, a model for data, and view to render or display data.


Googled result:

Model (ActiveRecord )
It maintains the relationship between the objects and the database and handles validation, association, transactions, and more.

This subsystem is implemented in ActiveRecord library, which provides an interface and binding between the tables in a relational database and the Ruby program code that manipulates database records. Ruby method names are automatically generated from the field names of database tables.

View ( ActionView )
It is a presentation of data in a particular format, triggered by a controller's decision to present the data. They are script-based template systems like JSP, ASP, PHP, and very easy to integrate with AJAX technology.

This subsystem is implemented in ActionView library, which is an Embedded Ruby (ERb) based system for defining presentation templates for data presentation. Every Web connection to a Rails application results in the displaying of a view.

Controller ( ActionController )
The facility within the application that directs traffic, on the one hand, querying the models for specific data, and on the other hand, organizing that data (searching, sorting, messaging it) into a form that fits the needs of a given view.

This subsystem is implemented in ActionController, which is a data broker sitting between ActiveRecord (the database interface) and ActionView (the presentation engine).
 

### 3. Using the information given, complete the steps for creating a new view in a rails app by filling in the blanks:

  1. Create a route: 
  
  code: 
  ```
  get '/about' => 'statics#about' 
  ```
  file: config/routes
  
  2. Create the controller
  
  code: 
  ```
  class StaticsController < ApplicationController
  
  def about 
    render 'about.html.erb'
  end
  ```
  
  file: statics_controller.rb
  
  3. Create the View
  
  code: 
  
  ```
  <div><h1>This is the About page!</h1></div>
  ```
  
  file: about.html.erb
  
  
### 4. Look at these sets of Rails routes, they are an example of which principle/term that we touched on briefly in class? Find the term, and explain why it is important.

 - HTTP methods. These methods provide the action counterpart to the noun-based resource. The most-commonly-used are POST, GET, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE. These correspond to create, read, update, and delete (or CRUD) operations, respectively.

```
/users/       method="GET"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'index'
/users/1      method="GET"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'show'
/users/new    method="GET"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'new'
/users/       method="POST"    # :controller => 'users', :action => 'create'
/users/1/edit method="GET"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'edit'
/users/1      method="PUT"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'update'
/users/1      method="DELETE"  # :controller => 'users', :action => 'destroy'
```

### 5. What is the public folder used for in Rails?

 - Per my Google search, the public folder is used to serve static files. So for example, you often see 404.html, 500.html and favicon.ico files in there. The assumption is that these don't require a context generated by your controllers to render them; for example the 404.html might just express that nothing exists at this URL, where the URL is something that isn't matched by the framework's routing system.

### 6. Write a rails route for a controller called "main" and a page called "game" that takes in a parameter called "guess"

get '/game/:guess' => 'main@game'


### 7. What are cookies for? How do they work? What is the difference between a session and a cookie?

 - Cookies are small files which are stored on a user's computer. They are designed to hold a modest amount of data specific to a particular client and website, and can be accessed either by the web server or the client computer. This allows the server to deliver a page tailored to a particular user, or the page itself can contain some script which is aware of the data in the cookie and so is able to carry information from one visit to the website (or related site) to the next.

Sessions:
1. Session can store any type of data because the value is of data type of “object”
2. These are stored at server side.
3. Sessions are secured because it is stored in binary format/encrypted form and gets decrypted at server.
4. Session is independent for every client i.e. individual for every client.
5. There is no limitation on the size or number of sessions to be used in an application.
6. We cannot disable the sessions. Sessions can be used without cookies also.
7. The disadvantage of session is that it is a burden or an overhead on server.
8. Sessions are called as Non-Persistent cookies because its life time can be set manually

Cookies:
1. Cookies can store only “string” datatype.
2. They are stored at client side.
3. Cookie is non-secure since stored in text-format at client side.
4. Cookies may or may not be individual for every client.
5. Size of cookie is limited to 40 and number of cookies to be used is restricted to 20.
6. Cookies can be disabled.
7. Since the value is in string format there is no security.
8.We have persistent and non-persistent cookies.


### 8. In an html form, what does the "action" attribute tell you about the form?  How do you designate the HTTP verb for the form?

The action attribute specifies where to send the form-data when a form is submitted. The method attribute allows one to specify the HTTP method.

### 9. Why would you use an instance variable in a rails controller?

You may use an instance variable to store pertinent information to be used in logical operations.

### 10. Name two rails generator commands and what files they create:

rails g model 
generates a model

rails g controller
generates a controller

### 11. Rails has a great community and lots of free tutorials to help you learn. Here is a list of some tutorials to choose from, choose one, do it, and then report back here at least one thing you learned. You can also use a different resource if you find one that you like better. 

- https://www.tutorialspoint.com/ruby-on-rails/index.htm
- http://railsforzombies.org
- http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html


 - Rails shuns configuration files in favor of conventions, reflection, and dynamic runtime extensions.
 - Rails gives you three default environments: development, testing, and production. Each behaves slightly differently, making your entire software development cycle easier. For example, Rails creates a fresh copy of the Test database for each test run.